What is Intellectual Property? Explain with context of Information Technology.

Intellectual Property can be defied as the legal right of an individual over a virtual property 
i.e. intangible aspects such as a name, design, product, processing method, etc. 

The main purpose of intellectual property is to ensure that the “Intellectual property” 
i.e. product of the owner is not used without the consent of the owner.

Broadly speaking, Intellectual Property acts as citizenship of a citizen; 
if someone else than the owner uses the citizenship without the owner’s consent to do anything, 
the case of identity theft arises and the perpetrator is punishable by law.    

So, Intellectual Property is the legal protection offered 
to the owner of the virtual assets such that others are punished for the use of the virtual assets.



A good example in current scenario can be made of NFT (Non-Fungible Token) as Intellectual Property. 
A NFT is basically an image which can be easily copied (which can be against the rule). 
But the difference between the copied image and the actual NFT is that, 
the actual NFT has the receipt of the ownership recorded in the block chain 
(basically synced database of purchase and selling of the NFT over different computers (miners)). 



Some types of Intellectual Property are:

a)	Copyright:    For writer and artists. E.g. Books, Music, Movies, Computer Programs, Designs, etc.
b)	Patents:      For Inventors. E.g. patent of Honda Civic (Car), Coca Cola (Drink), light bulb, etc.
c)	Trademarks:   To distinguish similar products through different names of organizations or   
                            Individuals. E.g. Soft drink: Coca Cola and Pepsi.
d)	Trade Secret: To protect confidential information. E.g. Recipe of Coca Cola. 







How to make it Safe?

There can be several ways to safeguard the Intellectual Property but generally these two stand out:

a)	Cryptograph: It is the process of ensuring safe transmission of information through complex mathematical operations. 
		     “With traditional CPU password cracking, it can take 92 years to guess all of the iterations using uppercase, 
                     lowercase and numbers for an 8 character password.” 
                     This statement is good enough to put trust in cryptography to safeguard the Intellectual Property.


b)	Digital Signature: It can fall under cryptograph as it also uses mathematical operation 
			   to ensure the authenticity of a digital claim i.e. a digital signature. 
			   The only difference may be that Digital Signature deals with the validity 
                           of a person’s digital claim whereas Cryptography can validate the transfer of the process.
